An internet protocol (IP) address is the unique identifying number assigned to every device connected to the internet. An IP address definition is a numeric label assigned to devices that use the internet to communicate. Computers that communicate over the internet or via local networks share information to a specific location using IP addresses. 
IP addresses have two distinct versions or standards. The internet protocol version  4 (IPv4) address is the older of the two, which has space for up to 4 billions IP addresses and is assigned to all computers. The more recent internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) has space for trillions of IP addresses, which accounts for the new breed of devices in addition to computers. There are also several types of IP addresses, including public, private, static and dynamic IP addresses.
When a user types a [[Domain name]], like google.com into a web browser, this will initiate a request to Google's web server asking for content. Once google receives the request, it needs to know where to send the website content. For this reason, the request will contains the asker's IP address. Using the provided IP address, Google can send a response back to the user's device, which will then display that content in the user's web browser.
The system that orchestrates all this is called [[Domain Name System (DNS)]]. It works like a phone book for IP addresses so that users can access web services using human-friendly domain names. When a user

### Public IP
A public IP address, or external-facing IP address, applies to the main device people use to connect their business or home internet network to their internet service provider (IPS). In most cases, this will be the router. All devices that connect to a router communicate with other IP addresses using the router's IP address.
Knowing an external-facing IP address is crucial for people to open ports used for online gaming, email and web servers, media streaming, and creating remote connections.

### Private IP
A private IP address, or internal-facing IP address, is assigned by an office or home intranet (or local area network) to devices, or by the internet service provider (ISP). The home/office router manages the private IP addresses to the devices that connect to it from within that local network. Network devices are thus mapped from their private IP addresses to public IP addresses by the router.